ME AND
COMMISSION FOR TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 9TH 19TH RATHER 20
2023 I WILL DO THE ROLL CALL
COMMISSIONER JAHNAVI HERE,
COMMISSIONER WILL HERE,
COMMISSIONER WEINER HERE AND
COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM.
>> YOU FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS
IS A SELECTION OF A CHAIR.
>> DO I HAVE ANY NOMINATIONS?
I NOMINATE DIANE SECOND I'LL
SECOND THAT ALL IN FAVOR I I
DEREGULATION'S APPROVED OF IT
YOU CAN TAKE OVER OR IF YOU'D
LIKE ME TO CONTINUE I CAN.
>> WHY DON'T YOU CONTINUE THIS
OR AT LEAST THIS SESSION MAYBE
THE NEXT SEVERAL.
>> SURE.
FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS OUR
SEGMENT BUSINESS IS APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA WHICH YOU HAVE IN
YOUR BINDER'S UNITAB ONE YOU
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA I MOVE OH GO AHEAD.
>> I WOULD I WOULD MAKE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA.
I SECOND THE MOTION ALL IN
FAVOR.
I OPPOSED IT APPROVED NEXT
BRINGS US TO PUBLIC COMMENT
THREE MINUTES PER SPEAKER ARE
ALLOWED FOR THE PUBLIC TO
COMMENT ON MATTERS BEFORE THE
COMMISSION.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC HERE WHO WISHES TO
COMMENT SEEING NONE PUBLIC
COMMENT IS CLOSED.
NEXT WE MOVE TO APPROVAL OF THE
MINUTES OF THE DECEMBER 2ND,
2021 SESSION.
THOSE ARE IN YOUR FOLDER WITH
TAB TO
GIVE YOU A MOMENT TO
TAKE A LOOK AT THEM
.
I WILL MOVE APPROVAL OF THE
MINUTES DECEMBER 2ND TWENTY
TWENTY ONE AND I'LL SECOND THE
APPROVAL OF THE MISS OH
DECEMBER 2ND TWENTY TWENTY ONE
ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSED THEY ARE APPROVED.
NEXT WE'LL MOVE TO COMMISSION
BUSINESS THE RESOLUTION TO
DETERMINE THE SALARIES OF THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
FOR FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE IN FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY SIX.
>> I WILL GIVE A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND HERE SO WE HAVE
ONE NEW MEMBER THIS YEAR,
COMMISSIONER HITE.
SO FOR HER BENEFIT AND THE REST
OF YOU IN ABOUT I IT WAS TWENTY
FIFTEEN THERE WAS AN EFFORT
MADE TO RESET THE SALARIES
BASED ON LOOKING AT THE AMOUNT
OF HOURS THAT THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS WORKED.
A SURVEY OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
WORKING AND THEN APPLYING A
LIVING WAGE TYPE FORMULA TO
RESET THE SALARIES IN ADDITION
TO LOOKING AT SOME COMPENSATION
FROM OTHER CITIES OF SIMILAR
SITUATIONS.
AND THEN ONCE THAT WAS DONE THE
COMMISSION MOVED TO ESTABLISH A
FORMULA THAT THEY THOUGHT WAS
APPROPRIATE GOING FORWARD TO
ADJUST THE SALARIES FOR
INFLATION THAT IS REFLECTED IN
THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION HERE
WHICH I DRAFTED BASED ON THAT
PREVIOUS FORMULA, THAT FORMULA
IS TAKING THE CONSUMER PRICE
INDEX FOR THE PRIOR TO FISCAL
YEARS AND THE NONUNION WAGE
INCREASE FOR THE PRIOR TO
FISCAL YEARS AND AVERAGING THEM
TO DETERMINE A AN INCREASE FOR
THE MAYOR'S SALARY.
THEN THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
SALARIES WERE SET AT FIFTY
PERCENT OF THE MAYOR'S SALARY.
PREVIOUSLY THE PRIOR COMMISSION
EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO
ULTIMATELY GET THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS SALARIES TO SIXTY
PERCENT OF THE MAYOR'S SALARY
THROUGH GRADUAL INCREASES.
SO FOLLOWING THAT DESIRE FROM
THE PREVIOUS COMMISSION, THE
CURRENT DRAFT INCREASES THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS SALARIES FROM
FIFTY FIVE PERCENT LAST YEAR TO
FIFTY SEVEN AND A HALF PERCENT
FOR FISCAL YEAR 25 AND THEN THE
FULL SIXTY PERCENT FOR FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY SIX SO MOVING IN
TWO AND A HALF PERCENT
INCREASES TO REACH THE SIXTEEN
PERCENT AND I THINK THAT'S ALL
THE SALIENT FACTS IF ANYBODY
HAS ANY QUESTIONS I'M HAPPY TO
TRY TO ANSWER THEM OR IF YOU
HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD.
YES.
I DON'T HAVE ANY QUESTION
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THE THE
FIFTY FIVE PERCENT FIFTY SEVEN
AND A HALF SIXTY.
MY QUESTION IS MORE ABOUT THE
SETTING OF THE MAYOR SALARY.
HOW DOES THE BASELINE GET
ESTABLISHED AND LOOKING AT THE
COSTS THAT YOU PUT IN IN THE
BACK I'M JUST WONDERING ARE WE
LOOKING AT THE ENTIRE THE
ENTIRETY OF THE OF THE STUDY
THAT HAS BEEN DONE OR THE THE
SURVEYING THAT HAS BEEN DONE OR
ARE THERE SPECIFIC COMPS THAT
YOU'RE USING IN ORDER TO
FORMULATE AN AVERAGE OR MEAN SO
THE COPS THE COPS ARE THERE FOR
INFORMATION?
THE MAYOR'S SALARY WAS RESET AS
I SAID I THINK IT WAS EITHER
2015 OR 2017 BASED ON LOOKING
AT THE HOURS TRYING TO
ESTABLISH A LIVING WAGE FOR THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
SO IT'S NOT BASED ON THE COMPS
AT ALL AT THIS POINT.
IT'S GOING FROM THERE AND THEN
THE INCREASES WERE TIED TO
INFLATIONARY MEASURES.
>> SO THE INFORMATION IN HERE
AS YOU SAID, IT'S JUST
INFORMATIONAL TO SEE HOW WE IF
WE NEEDED TO LOOK AT HOW DO WE
COMPARE AGAINST DETROIT OR
WESTLUND OR OTHER LIKE
COMMUNITIES IN OTHER STATES AND
SO FORTH.
I THINK THE REAL ANSWER IS IT'S
BEEN TRADITIONALLY PROVIDED BY
THE H.R. DEPARTMENT SO WE
CONTINUE TO PROVIDE IT.
OK, AND YOU'RE WELCOME TO USE
IT AS A REFERENCE POINT OR NOT.
YOU KNOW WHEN THIS THESE
DISCUSSIONS IN PREVIOUS YEARS
THERE'S SO MANY DIFFERENT
ASPECTS TO THE DIFFERENT CITIES
BENEFITS WHETHER THEY'RE
INCLUDED OR NOT OURS PUT IN
WHAT DOES IT SAY IN THE
CHARTER, ALL OF THESE THINGS.
AND SO ULTIMATELY IS DETERMINED
BY THE PRIOR COMMISSION TO USE
A LIVING WAGE TYPE CALCULATION
BASED ON WHAT THEY THOUGHT THE
HOURS ACTUALLY SPENT AND THE
IDEA WAS TO ENCOURAGE YOU
DIDN'T HAVE TO BE A WEALTHY
SOCIALITE TO BE ABLE TO SERVE.
YOU COULD ACTUALLY DO IT AND
GET BY RIGHT.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
YEAH.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION QUESTIONS
?
>> AND I THINK THERE WAS A
RECOGNITION IN LINKING THE
CITY
COUNCIL TO THE MAYOR'S SALARY
TO RECOGNIZE THAT THE MAYOR
DOES HAVE DUTIES ABOVE AND
BEYOND WHAT A COUNCIL MEMBER
HAS IN LIGHT OF THAT ROLE.
RIGHT.
SOME OF IT'S CEREMONIAL, SOME
OF THE LEGAL AND THAT WE DID
FEEL THAT IT WAS IMPORTANT
THOUGH TO LINK THE SALARIES IN
SOME RATIONAL WAY BETWEEN THE
MAYOR AND WHAT A COUNCIL
MEMBERS GET.
ALSO RECOGNIZING WHEN WE DID
THAT ANALYSIS SEVERAL YEARS AGO
OF HOW MUCH TIME COUNCIL
MEMBERS SPENT AND HOW MANY
DIFFERENT BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS THEY SERVE ON AND
EVEN THOUGH THEY'RE NOT THERE,
THEY'RE NOT AT THE SAME LEVEL
OF INTENSITY AS THE MAYOR, THEY
ARE STILL VERY INVESTED
INVOLVED IN THE OPERATIONS
OF THE CITY IN THE DECISION
MAKING OF THE CITY.
AND SO THAT WAS THE REASON TO
LINK YOU KNOW, WITH THE GOAL
ULTIMATELY OF 60 PERCENT
OF WHAT THE MAYOR IS RECEIVING.
>> AND I THINK IT'S TRUE AND
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG I THINK
THAT THE GROUP REACHED
CONSENSUS ON THESE ON THIS KIND
OF STRUCTURE PREVIOUSLY WE DID
AFTER SUBSTANTIAL DISCUSSION
THAT THAT'S WHAT WE CAME TO A
UNANIMOUS AGREEMENT THAT THIS
WAS AN APPROPRIATE WAY TO
PROCEED WHEN I REMEMBER JUST
BEING TWENTY SEVENTEEN BUT I
AGREE WITH YOU AS TO THE
DETAILS FOR THE REST OF IT AND
WHAT WE FOUND A COUPLE
OF SECONDS AGO WAS THAT IF WE
WENT WITH JUST A PERCENTAGE
BASIS ALONE THAT THAT THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS SALARY AND THE MAYOR'S
SALARY JUST BY THE ACCIDENT
OF USING PERCENTAGE ACTUALLY
WIDENED THE DIVIDE.
SO THEN WE TOOK A CLOSER LOOK
AT HOW WE FELT THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS DESERVE TO NOT
NECESSARILY LEAVE AND I DON'T
THINK WE WOULD HAVE THE FUNDS
TO JUSTIFY THAT THAT THEY
NEEDED TO NOT THEY NOT ONLY
NEEDED TO NOT FALL BEHIND
BECAUSE THEY WERE ROUGHLY ABOUT
A THIRD OF WHAT THE MAYOR'S
SALARY THAT THEY NEEDED TO BE
BROUGHT.
I THINK OUR RESOLUTION TWO
TIMES AGO WAS THAT THERE SHOULD
BE NO LESS THAN 50 PERCENT
OF THE MAYOR'S SALARY AND THEN
THIS IS LAST TIME IT WAS KIND
OF WE JUST WE JUST WENT FOR
CLOSING THAT GAP BECAUSE THESE
PEOPLE THEY'RE LIKE PART TIME
EMPLOYEES AND THEY JUST CAN'T
STOP.
>> YEAH, YOU CAN PUSH THE
BUTTON WORK TO TURN IT OVER AND
AGREE.
I THINK IT'S NOT A MAYBE IT'S
NOT BECAUSE THE NUMBER OF HOURS
THAT WE DISCUSSED IN THE LAST
SESSION THAT WE HAD THAT THE
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS WERE
SPENDING PER PER MONTH WAS
INCREDIBLY HIGH.
IT WAS AN AVERAGE OF JUST THE
AVERAGE WAS 120 HOURS REALLY
THERE WERE PEOPLE AT THE LOW
END OR MORE LIKE EIGHTY AND
THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO WERE 160
JUST SAID ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY HOURS IS NOT PART TIME
SO RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> AND THEN FROM THAT TO TO
REITERATE THE POINT ABOUT
EQUITY AS WELL THAT WE DON'T
LIKE SELF-FUNDED ELITES THE IF
THE ONLY FOLKS THAT REALLY CAN
AFFORD TO MAKE THAT KIND
OF TIME COMMITMENT THAT WE WANT
TO FULLY REPRESENT THE
COMMUNITY AND SO COMPENSATION
SHOULD BE HIGH ENOUGH TO
CERTAINLY NOT DISCOURAGE AND
MAYBE EVEN ENCOURAGE SOME
PEOPLE TO RUN FOR OFFICE SERVE
AS AN INCENTIVE.
>> YEAH, I FEEL GOOD ABOUT WHAT
THE GROUP HAS DECIDED IN THE
PAST AND WHAT'S BEING SUGGESTED
HERE AND I LIKE THE FOUR
METRICS FOR DETERMINING THE THE
ANNUAL INCREASE, YOU KNOW,
ASSUMING THAT THE STRUCTURE IS
SOUND THAT THAT ANNUAL INCREASE
IS BASED ON FOUR MEASURES
OF COST OF LIVING BASICALLY AND
THEN KIND OF MELDING THOSE FOUR
TO COME UP WITH AN AVERAGE
INCREASE THAT FIRST IS SET FOR
THE MAYOR AND THEN FOR THE FOUR
COUNCIL BASED ON EITHER FIFTY
SEVEN POINT FIVE OR MORE THAN
60 PERCENT OF OF THE MAYOR'S
SALARY.
SO I THINK THAT I THINK THE THE
MATH WORKS AND I THINK THAT THE
STRUCTURE WORKS.
>> SO JUST TO BE CLEAR SO
CURRENTLY I SEE YOU HAVE DOWN
HERE IT'S A FIFTY FIVE PERCENT
AND THAT GOES BACK TO WHEN YOU
HAD INDICATED, BRIAN, THAT IT
WAS NO LESS THAN 50 PERCENT.
YES.
AND ULTIMATELY IT GOT TO THAT
55 PERCENT.
YES YES.
I WOULD AGREE AS WELL.
I MEAN I THINK THE I THINK THE
METRICS THAT ARE BEING POLLED
ARE VERY REALISTIC.
IT CERTAINLY GOES SHOWS WITH
THE TIMES THAT WE'RE IN RIGHT
NOW AND HOW YOU KNOW, INFLATION
AND THE COST OF LIVING HAS
REALLY FLUCTUATED OVER THE
COURSE OF THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS.
I THINK WE'RE NOW STARTING TO
SEE SOME LEVELING OFF OR ME
DOWN BUT I THINK WE'RE FAR AWAY
FROM WHERE WE ULTIMATELY WOULD
HOPE TO BE AND FOR THE PUBLIC'S
SAKE THAT THE AVERAGE OF THE
FOUR METRICS THAT WERE USED CPI
CHANGE FOR FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWO FOR TWENTY THREE FOR CITY
NONUNION WAGE INCREASES AND
CITY OF CITY NONUNION FOR
TWENTY TWO POINT TWENTY THREE
AVERAGES OUT TO FOUR POINT FOUR
PERCENT FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR
WHICH AGAIN IT KIND OF TO ME
PASSES THE SMELL TEST OF THAT
SEEMS VERY REASONABLE GIVING
GIVEN WHERE INFLATION HAS BEEN
EVEN THOUGH IT'S COOLING FOUR
POINT FOUR PERCENT SEEMS LIKE A
VERY REASONABLE STANDARD AND
WE'RE USING METHODOLOGY.
>> WE'RE NOT JUST PICKING THAT
NUMBER OUT OF THE AIR EITHER.
FEELING TOO IS THAT IF IN
FUTURE YEARS IF WE WHETHER OR
NOT THE COMMISSION MAKES
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FURTHER
INCREASES WHICH WE WILL
PROBABLY CONTINUE TO DO BUT
NONETHELESS THE COUNCIL ALWAYS
HAS THE RIGHT TO REJECT IT.
IT'S UP TO THEM TO ACCEPT OR
REJECT.
I FEEL THAT THE METRICS WE'RE
WORKING WITH RIGHT NOW MAKE
SENSE AND EVEN IF THERE'S NOT
ANOTHER INCREASE FOR THE NEXT
FIVE YEARS, IF IT COMES TO THAT
AT LEAST PEOPLE ARE BETTER
PLACED THAN THEY WERE BEFORE
WITH A CLEAR PICTURE OF WHAT
THE CALCULATIONS ARE THAT GO
INTO IT AND THE NATURE OF THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE WORK.
>> YES.
SO YEAH.
JULIA, YOU MADE A COMMENT ABOUT
THE HOURS OF COUNCIL DO WE KNOW
ABOUT FOR THE MAYOR WHAT HE WAS
DOING THERE?
I WANT TO SAY HE WAS IN THE 120
RANGE, OK?
>> I DON'T RECALL THE EXACT
NUMBER WAS IT WAS YEAH.
I THINK HE WAS IN THE 120
RANGE.
SO I MEAN HE'S GOT A JOB IN
ADDITION TO THIS ONE THERE WAS
ONE CITY COUNCIL MEMBER THAT I
REMEMBER WHO WAS PUTTING IN
OVER 200 HOURS BUT YOU KNOW
THAT WAS HER CHOICE.
BUT I WAS STRUCK BY THE FACT
THAT IF YOU ELIMINATE THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE THE FARTHEST
OUTLIERS BECAUSE THERE WAS OUR
COUNCIL MEMBER WHO ESTIMATED
FIFTY FIVE HOURS AND I WILL SAY
I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT I THINK
THAT THEY UNDER I THINK THEY
ALL UNDERESTIMATED HOW MUCH
THEY CERTAINLY BUT IF YOU
LOOKED AT THE RANGE WHERE THE
AVERAGE REALLY LITERALLY WAS
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY HOURS
THAT'S WHERE THE MAYOR WAS AND
YOU KNOW THE FLUCTUATIONS ON
EITHER SIDE YOU JUST KIND
OF ARBITRARILY SAY YOU'RE
PROBABLY OVERESTIMATING OR
PROBABLY UNDERESTIMATE IS THERE
ANY OTHER FUNDING THAT IS
RECEIVED BY COUNCIL OR THE
MAYOR OTHER THAN MY SALARY?
ARE THERE OTHER STIPENDS OR NO
BENEFITS?
NO FRENCH WELL NO FRINGE
BENEFITS.
ARE THERE OTHER LIKE DO YOU
RECEIVE A STIPEND FOR GOING TO
OR BEING A CERTAIN NUMBER
OF COMMITTEES OR THINGS OF THAT
NATURE?
THERE IS EACH I THINK EACH
COUNCIL MEMBER HAS A SMALL LIKE
FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS MAYBE TO
BE USED FOR THINGS LIKE
CONFERENCES AND THINGS LIKE
THAT WHICH WOULD BE REIMBURSED
UPON REQUEST AND I DO NOT KNOW
HOW MANY OF THEM TAKE ADVANTAGE
THAT I THINK THAT'S ANNUAL AN
ANNUAL AMOUNT BUT OTHER THAN
THAT NO I THINK IT'S A MANDATE.
>> WELL I DON'T REMEMBER IF
I'VE GOT THIS RIGHT BUT
SOMETHING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS IT
ISN'T A LOT.
>> YEAH, 500 EPPRIDGE SO MOST
OF THEM DON'T TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF I NOTICED THAT THE COUNCIL
NOR THE MAYOR RECEIVE ANY OTHER
FRINGE BENEFITS CORRECT.
IT OCCURS TO ME JUST TO REVIEW
FOR THE PUBLIC AS WELL THAT THE
NATURE OF THIS WORK AND AND
BEING ELECTED IN AN ELECTED
POSITION IS THAT IN SOME WAYS
YOU'RE SIGNING UP FOR A TWENTY
FOUR SEVEN POSITION.
>> I MEAN PEOPLE CAN CALL YOU
OR CONTACT YOU DAY AND NIGHT
AND SURE THEY DO AND I'M SURE
THEY DO.
>> SO IT'S FAR MORE THAN
ATTENDING MEETINGS EVEN YOU
KNOW THE NUMEROUS BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS THAT THEY ARE YOU
KNOW THAT THEY ARE AND I THINK
THEY ALL WORK TO BE ACCESSIBLE
ALWAYS TO THEIR CONSTITUENTS
AND I FOR ONE REALLY HONOR THAT
COMMITMENT BECAUSE YOU ARE IN
MANY WAYS GIVING UP A LOT
OF YOUR PRIVATE LIFE IN ORDER
TO IN ORDER TO TO BE AVAILABLE
FOR THAT PURPOSE.
SO TO ME THIS SEEMS VERY THE
COMPETITION SEEMS VERY
REASONABLE FOR FOR WHAT THEY'RE
DOING AND I'M GRATEFUL THAT
THERE ARE STILL PEOPLE IN THIS
DAY AND AGE THAT THAT ARE
WILLING TO TAKE THIS ON SIMPLY
IN THE PUBLIC SPHERE AND FACE
OFTEN PUBLIC CRITICISM.
SO I I WANT TO APPLAUD ELECTED
OFFICIALS NOT JUST HERE IN ANN
ARBOR BUT IN GENERAL FOR FOR
TAKING ON WHAT THEY DO.
CAN YOU CLARIFY, CHRISTOPHER,
JUST WHAT WHAT IS THE PROCESS
ONCE WE HAVE ONCE WE HAVE
PRESUMABLY REACHED CONSENSUS ON
THIS WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
>> YES.
SO THE COUNCIL THEN HAS THIRTY
DAYS FROM THE DATE OF FILING AN
APPROVED RESOLUTION TO REJECT
IT AND THAT WOULD NEED TO BE
DONE BY A TWO THIRDS MAJORITY
OF THE COUNCIL.
SO TYPICALLY I THINK THIS WILL
GET FILED TOMORROW AND I WOULD
COMMUNICATE TO THE COUNCIL ON
THAT DAY THAT THEY HAVE THIRTY
DAYS TO BRING A RESOLUTION IF
SOMEONE CHOOSES TO BRING A
RESOLUTION TO COUNCIL WILL BE
PLACED ON AN AGENDA AND THEN
VOTED THAT HAS HAPPENED MAYBE
HALF THE
TIMES AND IF NO ONE
CHOOSES TO BRING ONE THEN IT
SIMPLY TAKES FACTORING IN
THIRTY DAYS AFTER FILING.
>> SO I THINK I WOULD JUST SAY
ALSO I'M SORRY.
NO NO PLEASE.
ONE OF THE REASONS THAT I FELT
VERY COMFORTABLE WITH THE
PROGRESS THAT WE'VE MADE OVER
THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS IS THAT
I KNEW THE HISTORY IN THE ODDS.
THERE WERE I THINK A COUPLE
OF TIMES RUNNING WHERE CITY
COUNCIL JUST REJECTED THE
INCREASE AND IT WAS OBVIOUSLY
BECAUSE THE ECONOMIC SITUATION
AND I AM VERY CONFIDENT THAT
THAT WOULD HAPPEN AGAIN IF NEED
BE SO I THINK THEY DESERVE
DESERVED.
ARE YOU.
IS COUNCIL DONE WITH MEETINGS
THIS YEAR?
YES.
THERE WAS IT YESTERDAY.
THE SEATS ARE STILL WARM THERE
YES.
FOR HAVE TO SAY YES.
THE SEATS ARE STILL WARM THERE
SO YOU COULD EITHER HAVE A
FOR HAVE TO SAY YES.
SPECIAL MEETING IF SOMEONE
SO YOU COULD EITHER HAVE A
WANTED TO OR THEY COULD
SPECIAL MEETING IF SOMEONE
SCHEDULE IT FOR ONE OF THE
WANTED TO OR THEY COULD
JANUARY MEETINGS STILL BE
SCHEDULE IT FOR ONE OF THE
WITHIN THE CASE.
JANUARY MEETINGS STILL BE
THE FIRST MEETING IN JANUARY.
WITHIN THE CASE.
>> YEAH, I MEAN I THINK YOU
THE FIRST MEETING IN JANUARY.
KNOW TO ALL OF YOUR POINTS FOR
>> YEAH, I MEAN I THINK YOU
NOT THIS THIS ISN'T A
KNOW TO ALL OF YOUR POINTS FOR
SUGGESTION OF WILD SPENDING.
NOT THIS THIS ISN'T A
YOU KNOW, THIS IS REALLY WELL
SUGGESTION OF WILD SPENDING.
THOUGHT.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS REALLY WELL
I THINK IN OUR LAST SESSION WE
THOUGHT.
SPENT A LOT OF TIME COMING UP
I THINK IN OUR LAST SESSION WE
WITH THIS AND AND JUST MOVING
SPENT A LOT OF TIME COMING UP
FORWARD WITH THE SAME GOOD PLAN
WITH THIS AND AND JUST MOVING
YOU KNOW, SEEMS LIKE A GOOD
FORWARD WITH THE SAME GOOD PLAN
IDEA TO ME.
YOU KNOW, SEEMS LIKE A GOOD
>> THEN WE YOU KNOW, THE
IDEA TO ME.
BENEFIT OF OF HINDSIGHT TO LOOK
>> THEN WE YOU KNOW, THE
BACK AND SAY WAS THIS A WISE
BENEFIT OF OF HINDSIGHT TO LOOK
DECISION?
BACK AND SAY WAS THIS A WISE
AND I THINK WE I THINK THERE'S
DECISION?
A CONSENSUS THAT YES, THIS IS
AND I THINK WE I THINK THERE'S
THE REASONABLE DO YOU KNOW I'VE
A CONSENSUS THAT YES, THIS IS
HAD CHRISTOPHER WHAT THE ANNUAL
THE REASONABLE DO YOU KNOW I'VE
BUDGET IS OF CITY I'M GUESSING
HAD CHRISTOPHER WHAT THE ANNUAL
IT'S EIGHTY MILLION PLUS NO.
BUDGET IS OF CITY I'M GUESSING
NO IT'S I THINK IT'S I THINK
IT'S EIGHTY MILLION PLUS NO.
IT'S OVER ONE HUNDRED NOW OVER
NO IT'S I THINK IT'S I THINK
ONE HUNDRED MILLION.
IT'S OVER ONE HUNDRED NOW OVER
>> SO I THINK THAT IT'S
ONE HUNDRED MILLION.
IMPORTANT FOR THE PUBLIC TO
>> SO I THINK THAT IT'S
UNDERSTAND THAT CONTEXT AS WELL
IMPORTANT FOR THE PUBLIC TO
.
UNDERSTAND THAT CONTEXT AS WELL
>> I MEAN IF YOU COMPARE THIS
.
TO WHAT WHAT YOU KNOW, PRIVATE
>> I MEAN IF YOU COMPARE THIS
INDUSTRY A HUNDRED MILLION
TO WHAT WHAT YOU KNOW, PRIVATE
DOLLAR A YEAR COMPANY FOR THE
INDUSTRY A HUNDRED MILLION
FOLKS THAT ARE MAKING THOSE
DOLLAR A YEAR COMPANY FOR THE
DECISIONS YOU ARE SERIOUS
FOLKS THAT ARE MAKING THOSE
RESOURCES HERE AND OUR LIVES
DECISIONS YOU ARE SERIOUS
IMPACTED BY THE DECISIONS THAT
RESOURCES HERE AND OUR LIVES
ARE MADE AROUND THIS TABLE.
IMPACTED BY THE DECISIONS THAT
SO I THINK IT JUST AFFIRMS
ARE MADE AROUND THIS TABLE.
AGAIN THE IMPORTANCE OF SEEING
SO I THINK IT JUST AFFIRMS
PEOPLE PROPERLY COMPENSATED FOR
AGAIN THE IMPORTANCE OF SEEING
THE WORK THEY'RE DOING.
PEOPLE PROPERLY COMPENSATED FOR
CHRISTOPHER, THE 100 MILLION IS
THE WORK THEY'RE DOING.
THAT ALL FUNDS OR IS IT JUST A
CHRISTOPHER, THE 100 MILLION IS
GENERAL FUND?
THAT ALL FUNDS OR IS IT JUST A
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT'S JUST
GENERAL FUND?
THE GENERAL FUND THAT'S NOW
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT'S JUST
YEAH.
THE GENERAL FUND THAT'S NOW
AND I'M SEEING DIFFERENT
YEAH.
NUMBERS BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT I
AND I'M SEEING DIFFERENT
LET'S SEE 123 GENERAL FUND.
NUMBERS BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT I
>> GENERAL FUND.
LET'S SEE 123 GENERAL FUND.
OH MY GOSH.
>> GENERAL FUND.
AND SO THEN YOU OBVIOUSLY HAVE
OH MY GOSH.
OTHER YES OR NO STAYTON YEAH
AND SO THEN YOU OBVIOUSLY HAVE
YEAH.
OTHER YES OR NO STAYTON YEAH
>> STATE AND FEDERAL MONEY
YEAH.
THAT'S COMING IN.
>> STATE AND FEDERAL MONEY
YEAH.
THAT'S COMING IN.
SO THAT THE THE TOTAL BUDGET IS
YEAH.
HALF A BILLION I'M SORRY HALF
SO THAT THE THE TOTAL BUDGET IS
BILLION SO FIVE HUNDRED BILLION
HALF A BILLION I'M SORRY HALF
OK AND THEN THE GENERAL FUND
BILLION SO FIVE HUNDRED BILLION
WHICH IS SORT OF THE KEY ONE IS
OK AND THEN THE GENERAL FUND
OK THIS IS WHERE THIS IS COMING
WHICH IS SORT OF THE KEY ONE IS
FROM YOU KNOW IT'S 123 IT'S NOT
OK THIS IS WHERE THIS IS COMING
SMALL CHANGE.
FROM YOU KNOW IT'S 123 IT'S NOT
NO AND WHEN I WANT TO REALLY
SMALL CHANGE.
START TO LOOK AT THE NUMBERS
NO AND WHEN I WANT TO REALLY
HERE THAT WE HAVE KIND OF LAID
START TO LOOK AT THE NUMBERS
OUT HERE, YOU LOOK AT THE
HERE THAT WE HAVE KIND OF LAID
CURRENT FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
OUT HERE, YOU LOOK AT THE
TWENTY FOUR SALARY OF THE MAYOR
CURRENT FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
AT FORTY NINE SEVEN FIFTY SEVEN
TWENTY FOUR SALARY OF THE MAYOR
SIXTY NINE AND THEN YOU START
AT FORTY NINE SEVEN FIFTY SEVEN
TO READ DOWN AT THE INCREASES
SIXTY NINE AND THEN YOU START
THAT WE'RE PROPOSING AND
TO READ DOWN AT THE INCREASES
THEY'RE JUST INCREDIBLE
THAT WE'RE PROPOSING AND
INCREASES AND WE'RE NOT TALKING
THEY'RE JUST INCREDIBLE
ABOUT GIANT LEAPS.
INCREASES AND WE'RE NOT TALKING
YOU'RE A COUPLE OF THOUSAND
ABOUT GIANT LEAPS.
DOLLARS A YEAR.
YOU'RE A COUPLE OF THOUSAND
>> RIGHT RIGHT.
DOLLARS A YEAR.
SO THIS IS IT JUST THE SEE THIS
>> RIGHT RIGHT.
LOOKS VERY, VERY NORMAL AND
SO THIS IS IT JUST THE SEE THIS
RATIONAL AND LIKE YOU SAID, IF
LOOKS VERY, VERY NORMAL AND
IT'S IF THEY FEEL LIKE IT'S NOT
RATIONAL AND LIKE YOU SAID, IF
RIGHT TO REJECT IT AS THEY HAVE
IT'S IF THEY FEEL LIKE IT'S NOT
IN THE PAST
ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION IF NOT WE CAN
ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO APPROVE
I'D MAKE A MOTION TO ACCEPT AND
APPROVE THE RESOLUTION HAS BEEN
PREPARED.
TWENTY THREE DASH 202 SEVEN SET
IN MOTION WELL IN FAVOR I WILL
OPPOSE MOTION IS APPROVED OK,
MOVING NOW TO COMMUNICATIONS.
WE HAVE THE COMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION ON ANY MATTER I'M
WONDERING CHRISTOPHER, COULD
YOU CLARIFY WHAT OUR TERMS
OF OFFICE ARE AT THIS POINT?
HOW HOW MUCH TIME WE EACH HAVE
LEFT IN OUR TERMS AND THEN IF
WE COULD MAYBE MAKE AN APPEAL
TO THE PUBLIC AS WELL ABOUT THE
VACANCIES THAT ARE CURRENTLY IN
PLACE AND WHAT THE PROCESS
WOULD BE IF SOMEONE IS
INTERESTED IN APPLYING TO SERVE
ON THIS COMMISSION.
YES.
SO COMMISSIONER HEIGHT WAS JUST
APPOINTED EXPIRES 2029.
THESE ALL EXPIRE SEPTEMBER 30TH
.
MISSIONER WEINERT YOU EXPIRE
NEXT YEAR.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
I DIDN'T LIKE THE WAY YOU SAID
THAT YOUR TERM EXPIRES.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER PRESSEL
YOUR TERM EXPIRES 2026 AND
COMMISSIONER YOUR TERM EXPIRES
TWENTY TWENTY EIGHT.
THE PROCESS FOR APPLICATION IS
THROUGH THE CITY'S BOARDS,
COMMISSIONS WEBSITES AND ONLINE
APPLICATION.
YOU CAN FILL IT OUT AND EXPRESS
YOUR INTEREST AND BE CONSIDERED
FOR APPOINTMENT.
THE NEXT SESSION WILL BE IN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE SO IT'S A
BIT FAR OUT BUT WE ARE ALWAYS
LOOKING TO ADD FOLKS THEY CAN
ALSO CONTACT ME.
MY CONTACT INFORMATION IS ON
THE ONLY NOTICE FOR THIS
MEETING ON PUBLIC NOTICE.
THANK YOU.
I WOULD SAY THAT WE ARE ALL ALL
OF US SITTING HERE ARE ACUTELY
AWARE OF THE FACT THAT WHEN YOU
ARE DOWN TO THE MINIMAL NUMBER
OF COMMISSIONERS IT PUTS A
SPECIAL BURDEN ON ALL OF US TO
NOT GET SICK, NOT HAVE TIME OFF
ETC. AND IT I I'M CONSISTENTLY
IMPRESSED WITH THE FACT THAT
WHATEVER OUR POLITICAL
DIFFERENCES WE HAVE A CITY
COUNCIL THAT I SWEAR WOULD DO
IT FOR NOTHING.
I KNOW THAT MANY PEOPLE HAVE
TAKEN THAT APPROACH AND SO IN A
WAY WE ALMOST HAVE AN UPHILL
CLIMB TRYING TO MAINTAIN
INTEREST IN HAVING
COMMISSIONERS ON THIS BOARD SO
THAT WE CAN ACCOMPLISH WHAT
WE'RE ACCOMPLISHING BECAUSE A
LOT OF PEOPLE REALLY DON'T CARE
AND IT'S KIND OF A PLEASANT
PROBLEM TO HAVE UNTIL YOU ARE
THE ONLY REMAINING FOUR
COMMISSIONERS OUT OF AN IDEAL
NUMBER OF SEVEN.
>> AND SO I KNOW THAT YOU HAVE
SAID, CHRIS, THAT YOU'VE YOU
KNOW, TRIED TO PUSH CITY
COUNCIL ON THIS.
I THINK WE NEED TO KIND OF ON
ONE HAND GIVE A SHOUT OUT BUT
ON THE OTHER HAND TELL THEM GET
GOING BECAUSE WE NEED MORE
COMMISSIONERS.
WE DON'T WANT TO BE PUT IN A
SITUATION WHERE WE'RE TRYING TO
HOLD OUR OWN AT THE END OF THE
YEAR BECAUSE IF WE HADN'T BEEN
ABLE TO PULL THIS OFF OR GOD
FORBID IF SOMETHING HAD GONE
WRONG AND WE HAD TO RESCHEDULE
IT, YOU KNOW, WE'RE OUT OF TIME
DECEMBER 31ST THERE ARE NO
OPTIONS.
>> AND SO WHEN WE ONLY HAVE
FOUR MEMBERS IT'S A BURDEN ON
US THAT IT WOULD BE BETTER NOT
TO HAVE SO I WOULD LOVE TO SEE
SOME SORT OF RESOLUTION TO JUST
INFORM CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
THAT THIS IS ACTUALLY HAS TO BE
A PRIORITY AND MAYBE THEY
BELIEVE THAT.
BUT I DON'T KNOW BUT IF WE SAY
IT STRONGLY ENOUGH MAYBE
THEY'LL ACCEPT IT.
>> YES, THAT'S THE SENSE OF THE
BODY.
I CAN CERTAINLY TRANSMIT THAT
TO THEM.
BUT I NOTIFY THEM AS
APPROPRIATE.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY FURTHER COMMUNICATIONS NOT
I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO
ADJOURN SOME SECOND OF FAVOR I
OPPOSED.
>> WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> YES